.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\" $Id$
.ie n \{\
.       ds lq \&"\"
.       ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.       ds rq ''
.       ds lq ``
.\}
.TH SDB 1 "Sep 2013" "SNOBOL"
.SH NAME
sdb \- SNOBOL4 debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdb
[
.I options
\&.\|.\|.
]
.I program.sno
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sdb
is a debugger for
.BR snobol4 (1)
programs, in the mold (clawning fone) of
.BR gdb (1),
The GNU debugger.
.BR sdb (1)
uses
.BR readline (3)
for command line editing/history when available.
.SS
Commands:
.TP 2
.BI break " LABEL_OR_STATEMENT_NUMBER"
Set a breakpoint.
.TP
.B bt
Display call stack backtrace.
.TP
.BI commands " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER"
Add sdb commands to execute (ie; print & continue) to a breakpoint.
.TP
.BI condition " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER EXPR"
If
.I EXPR
is supplied, it is used as a predicate to make the breakpoint conditional.
.TP
.BI continue " EMPTY_OR_COUNT"
Continue from breakpoint.  The optional count specifies how many times
to continue past this breakpoint (sets "ignore" count).
.TP
.BI delete " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER_OR_EMPTY"
Delete a single breakpoint, or all breakpoints.
.TP
.BI disable " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER_OR_EMPTY"
Temporarily disable a breakpoint, or all breakpoints.
.TP
.BI enable " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER_OR_EMPTY"
Reenable a breakpoint, or all breakpoints.
.TP
.B finish
Resume debugging after current function returns.
Will display function return type and value, if any.
.TP
.B help
Display help.
.TP
.BI ignore " BREAKPOINT_NUMBER COUNT"
Set breakpoint ignore count.
.TP
.B info
Display list of breakpoints and their status.
.TP
.BI list " EMPTY_OR_STATEMENT_NUMBER"
Display source code.
.TP
.BI next " EMPTY_OR_COUNT"
Single step execution, skipping over function calls.
.TP
.BI print " EXPRESSION"
Evaluate expression and print result.  Can be used to call functions,
or set variables.
.TP
.B quit
Exit debugger.
.TP
.BI step " EMPTY_OR_COUNT"
Single step.
.TP
.BI watch " VARIABLE"
Set watchpoint on a variable (break when value changes).
.TP
.B what
Display the datatype of variable contents (or expression).
.TP
.B where
An alias for bt.

.PP
A blank line repeats the previous command.
.PP
Non-ambiguous abbreviations of commands can be used (ie; "s", "n").
.PP
The GNU Readline library (when available) will be used for sdb
input for command editing and history.
.PP
The keyboard interrupt character (eg; Control C) will stop a running
program and return control to the
.BR sdb (1)
command prompt.
.PP
If your program calls the
.B SDB()
function, it will act as a breakpoint.
You can check whether
.BR sdb (1)
is loaded with the
.B FUNCTION
predicate, ie;
.IP
.ft CR
\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~FUNCTION('SDB') SDB()
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snobol4 "(1), " gdb "(1), " readline "(3), " snobol4readline (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Philip L. Budne
.PP
Inspired by Fred Weigel's DDT.SNO and
.BR SITBOL 's
SNODDT.

.SH "NOTA BENE"
.PP
.BR sdb (1)
uses a wide variety of system facilities and will interact poorly with
any programs that use any number of features, including:
.IP \(bu
Altering listing settings with directive/control lines.
.IP \(bu
Altering
.BR &STLIMIT ,
.BR &ERRLIMIT ,
or
.BR &TRACE .
.IP \(bu
Calling
.B SETEXIT()
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you try to put a breakpoint on a label or line with no code or goto fields,
the breakpoint will never be triggered.
.PP
You cannot put a breakpoint on the
.B END
label (however control always returns to sdb when the
.B END
label is reached).
.PP
There is no "run" command; you cannot restart the program without quitting and losing breakpoint settings.
.PP
Interrupt character trapping is in it's infancy, and only occurs at
the start of a each statement executed.
.PP
The interrupt character is silently ignored when at the
.B sdb
command prompt.
.PP
.B sdb
does not read an init file (ie; .sdbinit).
