.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\" $Id$
.ie n \{\
.       ds lq \&"\"
.       ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.       ds rq ''
.       ds lq ``
.\}
.TH SNOBOL4TIME 1 "29 Dec 2011" "SNOBOL"
.SH NAME
snobol4time \- SNOBOL4 time functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "-INCLUDE 'time.sno'"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B "GETTIMEOFDAY()"
function returns a
.B DATA()
object of type
.B TIMEVAL
with members
.B TV_SEC
(seconds since 1/1/1970 GMT)
and
.B TV_USEC
(microseconds since start of day).
.PP
.BR LOCALTIME( sec )
takes seconds since 1/1/1970, and returns a
.B DATA()
object of type
.B TM
with members:
.TP 10
.B TM_SEC
seconds since start of local minute (0 to 60)
.TP
.B TM_MIN
minutes since start of local hour (0 to 59)
.TP
.B TM_HOUR
hours since start of local day (0 to 23)
.TP
.B TM_MDAY
day of month (1 to 31)
.TP
.B TM_MON
month of year (0 to 11)
.TP
.B TM_YEAR
year minus 1900
.TP
.B TM_WDAY
day of week (sunday = 0)
.TP
.B
TM_YDAY
day of year (0 to 365)
.TP
.B TM_ISDST
is non-zero if summer time in effect at that time
.TP
.B TM_GMTOFF
offset from UTC in seconds (or -1 if not available)
.PP
.BR GMTIME( sec )
converts seconds to a
.B TM
object, but without any local time zone adjustments.
.PP
.BR MKTIME( tm )
converts a
.B TM
object to seconds since 1/1/1970.
.PP
.BR SLEEP( sec )
suspends program execution for a number of seconds.
.PP
.BR STRFTIME( format , tm )
formats the date information in tm according to the format string.
Consult your local
.BR strftime (3)
manual page (or C runtime manual) for more details.
.PP
.BR STRPTIME( str , format )
parses a string using using the supplied format and returns a
.B TM
object with the parsed elements filled in.
Consult your local
.BR strptime (3)
manual page (or C runtime manual) for more details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snobol4 "(1), " ctime "(3), " strftime "(3), " strptime (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Philip L. Budne
