.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\" $Id$
.ie n \{\
.       ds lq \&"\"
.       ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.       ds rq ''
.       ds lq ``
.\}
.TH SNOBOL4DBM 1 "3 Dec 2005" "Local"
.SH NAME
snobol4dbm \- SNOBOL4 NDBM interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "-INCLUDE 'ndbm.sno'"
.LP
.B "dbhandle = DBM_OPEN(file,flags,mode)"
.LP
.B "DBM_CLOSE(dbhandle)"
.LP
.B "DBM_STORE(dbhandle,key,datum,flags)"
.LP
.B "datum = DBM_FETCH(dbhandle,key)"
.LP
.B "DBM_DELETE(dbhandle,key)"
.LP
.B "key = DBM_FIRSTKEY(dbhandle)"
.LP
.B "key = DBM_NEXTKEY(dbhandle)"
.LP
.B "DBM_ERROR(dbhandle)"
.LP
.B "DBM_CLEARERR(dbhandle)"

.SH DESCRIPTION
"ndbm" is an industry standard fast hashed storage API first created
in 4.3BSD, and included in the Unix 98 (SUSv2) standard.

.PP
There are many different implementations of this API, including:

.IP \(bu
The original BSD 4.3 ndbm, based on AT&T dbm. Found in commercial Un*x
offerings.

.IP \(bu
Berkeley DB v1 compatibility interface.
Supplied with 4.4BSD based systems: (Free|Open|Net)BSD, MacOS X.

.IP \(bu
GNU DBM (GDBM) found in Linux distributions.

.IP \(bu
SDBM, Ozan Yigit's Public Domain implementation of NDBM.
Supplied with this distribution, and used as a last resort
on Un*x systems (and by default on non Un*x systems).

.PP
.B DBM_OPEN
takes a filename (STRING), flags (either "R" for read-only, "W" for
write access, or "CW" to create and write a new file), and a "mode"
string, which defaults to "0660" (octal) and returns an integer database
handle which can be passed to the remaining functions.

.PP DBM_CLOSE
closes the database file.
.BR DBM_CLOSE
.I MUST
be called to ensure that all your data is written.

.PP
.B DBM_STORE
takes a database handle, key and datum strings, and a flag
(either
.B DBM_INSERT
to insert a new pair, or fail if the key already exists, or
.B DBM_REPLACE
to insert or replace existing data).  The key and datum strings
may contain an arbitrary series of characters.

.PP
.B DBM_FETCH
returns the stored datum (if any) for the supplied key, or fails.

.PP
.B DBM_DELETE
deletes the stored datum (if any) for the supplied key, or fails.

.PP
.B DBM_FIRSTKEY
and subsequent calls to
.B DBM_NEXTKEY
allow you to traverse all stored keys.  The keys will be returned in
arbitrary order, and the routines will fail at the end of the
traversal.

.PP
.B DBM_ERROR
is a predicate which succeeds if the database handle is valid
and an I/O error has occurred on the file.
.B DBM_CLEARERR
is a predicate
which succeeds if if the database handle is valid, and has
the side effect of clearing the I/O error flag.

.SH FILES
NDBM, GDBM, and SDBM create two files:
.IR filename .dir,
.IR filename .pag.
Berkeley DB creates a single
.IR filename .db
file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ndbm (3),
.BR dbopen (3),
.BR gdbm (3).

.SH AUTHOR
Philip L. Budne

.SH BUGS
.PP
None of the implementations allow concurrent read and write.

.PP
Some implementations (classic NDBM and SDBM) place limits on the total
size of key plus datum.

.PP
Only GDBM provides locking to eliminate the possibility of file corruption,
or reading of incomplete data.

.PP
GDBM locking sometimes fails on NFS mounted partitions (particularly on
Linux systems).  GDBM's NDBM interface does not provide a way to disable
locking.

.PP
DBM databases are traditionally (re)created from text files and used
for fast disk-based read-only table lookups.  Programs which need to
update the file generate a new copy, and then rename the new file(s),
so that the next reader gets the new copies (existing readers continue
to see old data).
