.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\" $Id$
.ie n \{\
.       ds lq \&"\"
.       ds rq \&"\"
.\}
.el \{\
.       ds rq ''
.       ds lq ``
.\}
.TH SNOBOL4TCL 1 "19 Jun 2011" "SNOBOL"
.SH NAME
snobol4tcl \- SNOBOL4 Tcl/Tk interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "-INCLUDE 'stcl.sno'"
.LP
.B "tclhandle = STCL_CREATEINTERP()"
.LP
.B "STCL_DELETEINTERP(tclhandle)"
.LP
.B "STCL_EVALFILE(tclhandle,tclfilename)"
.LP
.B "value = STCL_GETVAR(tclhandle,varname)"
.LP
.B "STCL_SETVAR(tclhandle,varname,value)"
.LP
.B "STCL_EVAL(tclhandle,tclstmt)"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Tcl is an embedable scripting language developed by John Osterhout,
while at the University of Clifornia, Berkeley.  Tk is a graphical
user interface toolkit developed for Tcl.

.LP
This page describes STCL, an experimental facility for invoking Tcl
and Tk from SNOBOL4 programs, inspired by Arjen Markus' "ftcl"
FORTRAN/Tcl interface

.PP
.B STCL_CREATEINTERP
creates a Tcl interpreter and returns a handle which can be passed to
the remaining functions.

.PP
.B STCL_DELETEINTERP
destroys a Tcl interpreter.

.PP
.B STCL_EVALFILE
reads a Tcl script file into the referenced Tcl interpreter.

.PP
.B STCL_GETVAR
retrieves the string value of named variable from a Tcl interpreter.
.B STCL_GETVAR
stores a string value of named variable in a Tcl interpreter.

.PP
.B STCL_EVAL
evaluates a string containing Tcl code in a Tcl interpreter.

.SH EXAMPLE
.br
.ne 20
.RS
.nf
.ft B
-INCLUDE 'stcl.sno'
        INTERP = STCL_CREATEINTERP()
        TCL_VERSION = STCL_GETVAR(INTERP, "tcl_version")
        OUTPUT = IDENT(TCL_VERSION) "Could not get tcl_version" :S(END)
        OUTPUT = "Tcl Version: " TCL_VERSION
 
* check Tcl version
        NUM = SPAN('0123456789')
        VPAT = NUM '.' NUM
        TCL_VERSION VPAT . VER                          :S(CHECKV)
        OUTPUT = "could not parse tcl_version"          :(END)
 
CHECKV  LT(VER, 8.4)                                    :S(CHECKTK)
 
* Tcl 8.4 and later can dynamicly load Tk!
        STCL_EVAL(INTERP, "package require Tk")         :F(END)
 
* Check for Tk
CHECKTK TK_VERSION = STCL_GETVAR(INTERP, "tk_version")  :F(NO_TK)
        DIFFER(TK_VERSION)                              :S(HAVETK)
NO_TK   OUTPUT = "Could not find tk_version"            :(END)
                                                                              
HAVETK  OUTPUT = "Tk version: " TK_VERSION

LOOP    OUTPUT = STCL_EVAL(INTERP, 'tk_messageBox -message "Alert!" -type ok -icon info')
        VAL = STCL_EVAL(INTERP, 'tk_messageBox -message "Really quit?" -type yesno -icon question')
        OUTPUT = VAL
        DIFFER(VAL, "yes")                              :S(LOOP)
END
.ft R
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tclsh (n),
.BR Tcl (n).

.SH AUTHOR
Philip L. Budne

.SH BUGS
.PP
NOTE!  By default the STCL extension is not built into
.BR snobol4 (1),
it must be explicitly included at build time.  In Tcl 8.4 and later,
Tk can be dynamicly loaded by Tcl at runtime, but in earlier releases,
it has to be included at compile time.  When dynamicly linked
libraries are not available, this can cause the SNOBOL4 interpreter
executable to expand by up to four fold!  STCL should be a dynamicly
loaded SNOBOL4 extension.

